# Project AOTF - Deliverable 1 (Software Inception)

## Introduction
We will be build a top-down multiplayer game based on the Unity platform. We are currectly gathering information from stakeholders about what type of game they would want to play.
We will be using the Unity C# platform to implement and write our game. Requirements are still lose at this point but we know we will be doing a top-down style with a more retro feel.
We plan to use pixel art throughout this project.

## Initial Value Proposition
Share great experiences and stay connected with friends.

Embark on new adventures with your friends or take on the task alone.


## Interview Summaries
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interviewee: Jacob L. / 29 / Nurse
Interviewer: Zack Bryant
Date/Time: Friday February 3, 2022 6:26pm
Overview: 

Finds game mentally engaging and enjoys playing them with his friends.

Likes stylized non realistic graphics, likes bright and colorful games. Finds stylized graphics more creative.

Finds timing mechcanics fun. When he hits the perfect timing it feels 'good'.

Perfers to play games on the PC, since most of his games on the PC, it has more fps, higher quality.

Likes it when games are trying to innovate and not just produce the same game over and over. He says AmongUs and FallGuys he found really cool and new. And likes games kinda like Mario party where you can play with or agaienst friends

Has played a few Dungeon Crawleras like Hades. Like Hades art, music, animations, and liked the story and how every time you interacted with the enviroment it would give you a different response. Such as giving a treat to the dog would rarly ever give you the same line of dialogue. Finds the randomness in the game fun, such as never having the same path to reach the final boss, and once again the changing dialogues. Likes all the options the game provides like power ups.

Key Insights: Very much enjoys playing games with his friends and likes random elements in dungeon crawlers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewee: Mike B. / 23 / TA & intern engineer
Interviewer: Zack Bryant
Date/Time: Friday February 3, 2022 6:40pm
Overview: 

Plays games in waves, either plays a lot one day or not at all. Is shoirt on free time.

Plays super fast paced FPS games and RPG's.

Plays ultrakill, doom eternal, dusk, witcher 3, final fantasy, persona, runescape.

Likes fast twitch games because they feel skill based. Gives him a lot of movement options that give him more freedom.

Likes stylized graphics more then realistic graphics, because his computer can run them better usually.

Likes gameplay mechanics that require some learning to use them and timing to pull off.

Plays pretty much on PC/PS4 and emulators. Likes to play on eumlator because he can play old games from when he was a kid.

Doesn't feel like most AAA are polished when they come out.

Like dungeon crawlers with loot. He thinks it's because it's fun to see his progression and likes it when he finds the a rare loot drop.

Doesn't like dungeon crawlers that feel repetitive, or feel like you just click and don't engage that much or have many movement mechanics.

Mainly enjoy single player games because he doesn't have enough time and finds he can play them at his own pace

Key Insights: Likes very fast paced game, skill based games, and games that engage him
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewee: Kaila I. / 21 / TA & ITS
Interviewer: Zack Bryant
Date/Time: Friday February 3, 2022 7:00pm
Overview:

Plays call of duty mainly black ops I & II, and MW2. Finds them nostalgic. Says when they came out they felt different because there weren't many other FPS mutiplayer shooters out and that's what drew them to it. Mainly wanted to be competitive with other people and liked winning.

Prefers the realistic graphics. Likes cyberpunks graphics, finds them real and detailed. Thinks realistic graphics speaks more then cartoon graphics like happy wheels. Doesn't like 2d and perfers 3d graphics. Feels more engrosed in 3d and just feels more fun. Finds 3d adds to story more because you feel more in the game.

gameplay mechanics they like is more movement based, actions that help you increase your skill.

Plays mainly on xbox since that what they had growing up. Doesn't game as much anymore, but if they did they would use a PC becuase they would like to work on the PC and have a powerful PC to play games on.

Very excited to see where virtual reality is going, since it's the 'next' step to be in the game. excited about the immersion of it.

Finds breaking the game fun. Such as taking advantage of spawn points in call of duty. Likes to find out how they programed the game to capatialize on being better.

Hasn't really played much dungeon crawlers but played call of duty zombies which is fairly close. Says they didn't like how the first few rounds were slow. Likes it when they are forced to focus more on higher rounds. Likes how zombies force her to be tactile and have a plan. If it's too easy it's not fun.



Key Insights: Likes the competitive aspect of games. Doesn't want to play a game unless it gives them a challange. Likes skilled based games.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewee: Tim T. / 43 / Sells commerical insurance
Interviewer: Zack Bryant
Date/Time: Friday February 3, 2022 7:35pm
Overview:

His son and him play halo a lot. Likes to play halo because he can play it with his son and it's what he plyaed growing up.

Liked contra when it came out because it was simple. Found contra fun because there was never a video game like that before.

Only plays video games with other people. Doesn't have a lot of time so he wanted to hangout and play video games at the same time.

Doesn't care much about graphics but just liked the first person shooter view. Says all the games when he played as a kid were all left to right like mario so when a FPS came out it was new and sick.

Doesn't mind pixel graphics if it's in older games. Thinks minecraft graphics work well though it not high res because it's an appeal for the game (makes it kinda cool that the graphics are great).

Mainly plays on the xbox because he and his son can play together.

Never has played a dungeon crawler game.

Key Insights: Mainly plays game with his son because it's a way for them to spend time together and have fun.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewee: Ryan M. / 21 / Student & ITS Student Employee
Interviewer: Sam Gerstner
Date/Time: Friday February 4, 2022 3:30pm
Overview:

Ryan is an avid video game player and spends a large portion of his free time playing video games. 

He mainly prefers modern titles and graphics, and does not enjoy more "retro" style games.

Enjoys playing with other people and enjoys having close social/chat tie ins in mltiplayer games.

Strictly plays on PC, does not play on any console.

He mainly enjoys fast-paced first person games with an action as well as military-based games. 

Key Insights: Likes fast-paced games with good social and chat features.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewee: Dylan W. / 20 / Student & ITS Student Programmer
Interviewer: Sam Gerstner
Date/Time: Friday February 4, 2022 10:15am
Overview:

Plays video games as a way to relieve stress and relax because he doesn't have a lot of free time. 

Enjoys having multiplayer available but has a preference for a strong story/campaign.

Strictly players on PC, does not play on any consoles.

Likes open-world style and RPG games with open ended story and lots of room to explore.

Doesn't mind retro style games or pixel art if it is done well.

Likes the abaility to play with friends but doesn't like obstrusive multiplayer or chat windows.

Key Insights: Enjoys playing video games but doesn't have a lot of free time so enjoys games that don't require continuous play.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewee: Michael D. / 19 / Studying Electrical Engineering at ASU
Interviewer: Lenin Valdivia
Date/Time: Friday February 5, 2022 2:06pm
Overview:

Plays games for relaxing and having fun (videogames are a good passtime).

Currently Playing: Yugioh Dual Masters, League of Legends.

Likes both pixelated and high-definition graphics; however, pixel art is more charming. As he states, "I like the modern take of retro aesthetics."

Enjoyable gameplay mechanics: Soul's like (an element of challenge), weopon variety, difficult boss battles (the, as he states, "gratisfaction" and sense of acomplishment from overcoming a hard boss).

Mainly plays on the Nintendo Switch and PC.

Preference for shootng games on PC, as it is easier to handle aiming with a mouse and keyboard.

Preference for platforming and racing games on console, as such games are easier to handle with a contoller.

What games aren't doing enough of these days: as he states, it is hard to say, as the videogame industry is ever expanding, with almost every niche that one could think of is already scratched by a videogame out there. However, he would like to see more games like Fire Emblem: strategy board games.

Has an interest in our game, as he is a fan of dungeon crawlers; in particular, he has many hours on Enter the Gungeon. Now, as for our game, he is interested to see how we will go about implementing the melee combat in our primarily shooter, rogue-like dungeon crawler. He then explains an example of melee combat from Enter the Gungeon: how there is bat that can also deflect bullets.

Any questions that I should have asked: "what type of stages/levels would interest the user?; what type of mechanics would the user suggest for our game?; what are some good additions that the user thinks are good for our game?" As for that last question, Michael suggests to have a card like Raigeki (from Yugioh) where it's super rare, and has the ability to clear an entire level. 

Key Insights: Enjoys games that force you to pay attention and "git gud" in order to overcome a particular part of the game. Also, randomness is a MUST for rogue-likes; otherwise, such games will get stale quick.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewee: Nick N.
Interviewer: Noah N.
Date/Time: Friday February 3, 2022 10:30pm
Overview:

Q: Do you play games?
A: Yes

Q: Why do you play games?
A: To have a fun time and to win games

Q: What kind of graphics do you like
A: Realistic (Halo, Call of duty)

Q: What gameplay mechanics do you find enjoyable
A: Shooter mechanics, randomized challenges
   Allows for a cool experience and makes it very cinematic

Q: What game platforms would you want to buy a game on?
A: Xbox, preferably, maybe Steam if my laptop could handle it

Q: What gameplay mechanics do you find enjoyable
A: Shooter mechanics, randomized challenges
   Allows for a cool experience and makes it very cinematic

Q: What game platforms would you want to buy a game on?
A: Xbox, preferably, maybe Steam if my laptop could handle it

Q: What do you feel like games aren’t doing that you want to see?
A: Allowing for a customizable protagonist in a good story, and making gameplay mechanics more seamless

Q: What questions should I have asked you?
A: None that i could tell

Key Insights: Likes games that are fast and fun
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewee: Trevor C.
Interviewer: Noah N.
Date/Time: Friday February 3, 2022 10:30pm
Overview:

Q: Do you play games?
A: Yes

Q: Why do you play games?
A: To be the best at them

Q: What kind of graphics do you like
A: Realistic graphics, but i like very stylized graphics

Q: What gameplay mechanics do you find enjoyable
A: The mechanics for fast movement and easy character control

Q: What game platforms would you want to buy a game on?
A: Steam, allows me to have all my games in one place


Q: What game platforms would you want to buy a game on?
A: Steam, allows me to have all my games in one place

Q: What do you feel like games aren’t doing that you want to see?
A: Properly rewarding players for being good at their games

Q: What questions should I have asked you?
A: Nope

Key Insights: Game preferance is smooth and challenging
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewee: Teino S.
Interviewer: Noah Nannen
Date/Time: Friday February 3, 2022 10:30pm
Overview:

Q: Do you play games?
A: Yes, quite often

Q: Why do you play games?
A: To have a fun experience with my friends and help me relax

Q: What kind of graphics do you like
A: Mostly stylized, free form art styes

Q: What gameplay mechanics do you find enjoyable
A: Realistic mechanics, like recoil and realistic movement

Q: What game platforms would you want to buy a game on?
A: Xbox, That’s my preferred console

Q: What do you feel like games aren’t doing that you want to see?
A: Taking the time to make a good game, making it solid so its not buggy on release.

Q: What questions should I have asked you?
A: No

Key Insights: A fully polished game with a realistic feel
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewee: Vicente C. / 20 / Dental Hygiene Student
Interviewer: Asa Henry
Date/Time: Saturday February 5, 2022 12:00pm
Overview:

Tastes belong to the Action RPG, First Person, and Third Person genres

Enjoys fast paced gameplay, and values games which encourge critical thinking
Examples of "critical thinking" can be found in Dead Space, a Horror Shooter, where the player is forced to make decisions
about the resources, such as ammunition, they have at their disposal

Also feels the gaming experience is enhanced when tasks/missions can be completed in different ways; the Fallout franchise
was a notable point where the player could improve different aspects of their character and items

Particularly enjoys the upgrade systems found in games like Dead Space and Fallout

Dying Light 2 makes a fluent connection between the movement/traversal system and the combat system; moving around the world
can be done in many ways, and tricks, even as simple as jumping, can be employed to take out enemies in unique ways

Particularly dislikes when games do not scale the player's reward to the amount of time spent completing a task
Example: Call of Duty Zombies rewards the player the same 25 points for defeating a basic zombie and a juggernaught zombie

Feels experience is hindered when games make the player spend too much time calculating gain vs. loss like in MMOs; and
dislikes the slow pace of RTS games

Key Insights: Enjoys games that have a story and engages their thinking
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewee: Malavik / Casual gamer
Interviewer: Asa Henry
Date/Time: Sunday February 6, 2022 12:00pm
Overview:

Tastes belong to the Open World and Puzzle game genres

Enjoys playing games that work the brain, that challenge the player in their decision making -
Far Cry allows the player to assess and approach a situation in their own way; rewards the player for being stealthy, a
more planned approach
 - "Far Cry 4 encourages players to do something for the most benefit"

Plays puzzle games because they engage the counscious mind while allowing the unconscious mind to process other things
 - "Tetris is really good game for getting conscious mind involved, and allows the unconscious mind to process"

Dislikes when other game mechanics get in the way of completing tasks -
Far Cry's animal AI can be inconvenient when the player is attacked by a Lion or jump scared by a snake and their plans
get thrown off; wild animal AI is good, but can get in the way when the player is not directly engaging

Likes the cartoon art style of games such as Borderlands, Portal, Half-Life, Earthworm Jim

Dislikes crafting systems with a lot of hoops to jump through -
Far Cry 4 ties some crafting items to missions, and this can cause some missions to be incompletable

Finds randomness appealing, especially when randomness affects the encounters a player has -
Shadow of Mordor uses AI to pid orcs against each other and fight until an orc rises to rank; this will have an influence
on how the next boss fight will go; for one player the boss will be weak, and for another the boss will be strong
 - "Enemy autonomy in Shadow of Mordor added uniqueness depending on the orc you killed"

Feels class systems are a good way to give every player meaning

Assessment:
-----------

Must Have -
   Randomness to keep the game fresh
   
   Room for the player to approach the problem in their own way

Nice To Have -
   Class for the player to choose from
   
   "Cartoony" pixel art style
   
Don't Care -
   Crafting System
   

Key Insights: Likes games that challenge the player to think about their next moves, but allows the player to express themself
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interviewee: Ender / 21 / Studying Media
Interviewer: Asa Henry
Date/Time: Sunday February 6, 2022 2:15pm
Overview:

Every game must have a story to tell

Particularly enjoys Action Adventure, Stealth, First Person, RPGs, and will play Third Person

Stealth games offer a puzzle-like aspect to mission which encourages creativity in the player

First Person games help become the character and experience the game as a person

Third Persons have to have an "established character"; third person games have to give value to watching a character

Believes that every art style has a place, but the art must fit into the game -
Dishonored and Long Dark are particularly favorable because their "oil paint" look makes environments appear as though
it was painted by a person

Values exploration because there is a sense of reward when finding small trickets or clues, and it gives the player to
opportunity to experience the story through the environment and physical characteristics of NPCs

Is most comfortable on PC

Wishes to see more games that work to create connections between the player and the NPCs -
Mass Effect Triology has a notable character, Thane, who the interviewee felt a deep connection, and experienced a sense
of loss when Thane died in Mass Effect 3

Key Insights: Values games that tell a story, allow the player to approach the game in their way, and immerses the player
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Final Value Proposition
Embark on new adventures with your friends or take on the task alone.
