# 1. Postioning

## 1.1 Problem statment

## 1.2 Product Position Statement

## 1.3. Value proposition and customer segment

# 2. Stakeholders
###### Story Developers
Must develop a compelling story that engages the player by adding depth to characters, items, and the environment; in the best case, this would give the player more insentive to continue playing or return to the game for the story

###### Game Developers
It is the job of game developers to work with the story developers and game designers to understand and help plan the systems that will appear in the game. These systems should be compelling and enhance the gaming experience for players; adding a new dimension to the experience beyond story, and these systems should support the story, exploration, etc.

###### Game Designers
Should develop assets that uphold the story and help player get immersed and invested in the story being told; in addition, to supporting the gameplay elements such as combat.

###### Players
The players rely on the game, story, and design developers to deliver a game that is fun to play and offers something that is not already found in the market. Additionally, it is the job of the player to play the game and give feedback to the developers. Be this feedback for what this could be added or fixed in an update, what could be added in game expansions, or what could be added or done differently in new titles the developing team releases.

###### Clients
Support the developing team in their endeavour to release a polished and engaging game that appeals to the target audience, and help the developing team meet their release deadline.

###### Competitors
The competitors have the responsibility of trying to one up our develping team by delivering a game to our market that out performs or adds something new to the market. Competitors keep the gaming scene interesting with their new titles and inovations because this competition - the desire to do something unique or better - helps keep the market evolving and offering new fresh experiences to the players.

# 3. Functional requirements (features)
1. multiplayer and single player  
2. fast paced  
3. engaging  
4. challanging  

# 4. Non-functional requirements

1. Secure connection for transmitting credentials
2. High availability and reliability
3. Maintaining high player satisfaction

# 5. MVP
For our minimum viable product we plan on making a very bare bones prototype that is playable. It will contain the ability to move around, shoot enemies,
 destroy enemies and have the ability for multiplayer. Some others things may be added in for testing such as respawning to make our lives and the testers life
 easier but respawing isn'tconsidered a core part of the game. Very minimum art will be included, mainly so the player can see where the eneimes are, identify the
 boundries of the map,idenify players location as well as any friends locations, and any projectile locations. We plan on validating this MVP by doing play tests.
 From this we should we able to idenifty what else needs to be included to make our core game fun as well as identify what we can remove from our MVP to make it
 still fun.

# 6. Use cases

## 6.1. Use case diagram

## 6.2. Use case descriptions and interface sketch

# 7. User stories

# 8. Issue Tracker
We will be utilizing GitHub for all issue tracking and team communication. We have created an organization in GitHub which allows all team members access to test repositiries, 
as well as a project board for team communioation. We can track tasks that need to be done on the project board, and create GitHub issues in repositiries as needed. We plan to
use GitHub issues for problems in the code or documentation that need to be resolved.
