# Project AOTF - Deliverable 5 (Design)

## Description

## Architecture

## Class Diagram

## Sequence Diagram

## Design Patterns

## Design Principles

### - Single responsibility principle
- We can see our game following the practice of single responsibility if we take a look at our player class. In our player class we only have things pertaining to stats of the characters, such as health, armor, damage and movement speed. While others elements can be added to our player class we would start escaping single responsibility. Such as if we added movement to the player in the player class. While this may seem like a good idea at first since our player has the option to move we have now introduced the player class containing being responsible of stats for the player and responsible for moving the player. We can see here that these are two responsibilities and not one. For movement we have a script that can be attached to our player instead, which allows us not only to have clear separation of responsibilities but promotes modularity since we can reuse the movement script if needed.

### - Open/closed principle
- An example of open close can also be seen with our player prefab. Our player prefab at its core is just a rigidbody that we are able to extend with other scripts. We've extended the prefab to the point where it can move, shoot, and have a connection to a server. So while we are able to keep our player open and allow extensions we’re are also not allowing the rigid body to be directly modified.

### - Liskov substitution principle
- We can see the Liskov substitution principle being used in our player prefab and enemy prefab. They both inherit from the character class but have their own unique classes. We are able to swap these subtypes and not have any conflicting issues since both of these classes only extend off of the character and do not directly change or modify the character class.

### - Interface segregation principle
- Once again with our character class, enemy class and player class we have only the necessities for each class. The character class does not extend any functionality that the player class would not use and the same goes for the enemy class.

### - Dependency inversion principle
- As of right now we haven't had a chance to use the dependency inversion principle. We can use some type of player tracker script that would take the stats of the player such as current movement speed, current health, current weapon and we are able to broadcast these traits to whatever script or component would need to view these details. This way we don't have to have the components directly accessing our player or enemy prefabs but we can still translate their details.
