# Project AOTF - Deliverable 6 (Implementation 2)

## Introduction

## Implemented Requirements

## Tests

## Demo

## Code Quality

#### Policies
Our general policy involved writing code in the interest of getting a working product. This means everyone was able to write with their own style; however, an emphasis was put on the 80 characters per line limit we have been practicing at NAU thus far.

In the event that a line was needed to be broken up:
- mathematical operations should be broken up at the operator, or before; character limit permiting
- conditionals should be broken up at or before the conditional operator; character limit permiting
- method and constructor calls were to be broken up at the comma

#### Conventions
Since we were working with the Unity Necode solution to attain a multiplayer game, we adopted the convention for Server RPC and Client RPC methods.
- Client RPC methods should end with "ClientRpc"
- Server RPC methods should end with "ServerRpc"

#### Best Practices
Variables:
- All variables needed for a class were to be declared and/or initialized at the beginning of the class
  
- All varaibles needed to have a short description of their place/use by the class, as well as any other information that may be helpful in idnetifying
  their use
  
- Variables should be grouped by their place; for example, all timers should be grouped together, and be headed under "Timers"; or something of that
  nature
  
Custom Methods:
- All custom methods were to be declared and/or implemented below any implementation of Unity's defined methods, such as "Start()" and "Update()"

- All custom methods were to be ordered by name, in alphabetical order

- All custom methods should be documented with a short description of their place in the class, as well as any remarks from the programmer; and every
  method should have a short description of their parameters


## Lessons Learned
Our group learned quite a bit over the course of the project. At the beginning, several of us took positions that we thought would be very pertinant to the game development. But, as we continued working, we learned that some of our positions were obsolete. We made changes in order to ensure that each person was doing their fair share, and we continued on. The group also learned about the value of having a team to check code. We would often overlook simple solutions that someone else was able to remind us of. It was one of the larger lessons that we learned.
